Add AI skill for quarkus-hibernate-search-orm-elasticsearch (#54066)
quarkusio/quarkus: extensions/hibernate-search-orm-elasticsearch/deployment/src/main/resources/META-INF/quarkus-skill.md

### Setup

> Requires `hibernate-search-orm-elasticsearch` + `hibernate-orm` (or `hibernate-orm-panache`) + a JDBC driver + Elasticsearch Dev Services.

Reviewer: > Elasticsearch Dev Services

Are imported automatically as a transitive dependency. Do we need to mention it explicitly ?

Author: Good point — removed the explicit mention. The current version just says it requires the extension + Hibernate ORM + JDBC driver, and notes that Dev Services starts automatically.

**Mandatory configuration** — set the Elasticsearch version to match Dev Services:

```properties
quarkus.hibernate-search-orm.elasticsearch.version=9

> quarkus.hibernate-orm.schema-management.strategy=drop-and-create

Reviewer: This is usually ok for local dev, but not for production use. Do we need a prod profile override?

Author: Done — added `%prod.` override for the schema strategy.

```

Dev Services starts Elasticsearch automatically. The version property must match — check the Dev Services log for the actual version started.

### Indexing Entities

```java
@Entity
@Indexed

> public class Article extends PanacheEntity {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
public class Article {

    @Id 
    public Long id;
```

since we put panache in `(..)` should we go with the regular ORM entity instead here?

Author: Done — switched to regular JPA entity with `@Id @GeneratedValue` instead of Panache.

    @FullTextField(analyzer = "standard")
    public String title;

    @FullTextField(analyzer = "standard")
    public String content;

    @KeywordField
    public String author;

    @GenericField(sortable = Sortable.YES)
    public LocalDate publishedAt;
}
```

- `@Indexed` — marks the entity for indexing in Elasticsearch.
- `@FullTextField` — full-text search with analysis (tokenized, lowercased). Specify `analyzer`.
- `@KeywordField` — exact match, no analysis. Use for filters, facets (`aggregable = Aggregable.YES`), sorting (`sortable = Sortable.YES`).

> - `@GenericField` — for non-text types (dates, numbers). Add `sortable = Sortable.YES` for sort fields.

Reviewer: Maybe worth going with FQCNs here ? or say that these come from `org.hibernate.search.mapper.pojo.mapping.definition.annotation` ?

Author: Done — added a note that annotations are from `org.hibernate.search.mapper.pojo.mapping.definition.annotation`.

### Searching

Inject `SearchSession` and use the search DSL:

```java
@Inject SearchSession searchSession;

@Transactional
public List<Article> search(String query, String author) {
    return searchSession.search(Article.class)
        .where(f -> {
            var bool = f.bool();
            bool.must(f.match().fields("title", "content").matching(query));
            if (author != null) {
                bool.filter(f.match().field("author").matching(author));
            }
            return bool;
        })
        .sort(f -> f.field("publishedAt").desc())
        .fetchHits(20);
}
```

- `f.match().fields("title", "content").matching(query)` — full-text match across multiple fields.

> - `f.bool()` — combine predicates with `must`, `should`, `filter`, `mustNot`.

Reviewer: maybe it would be worth explaining the difference between `must`/`filter` and mentioning `minimumShouldMatch` for should clauses ?

Author: Done — added explanation of `must` vs `filter` scoring and `minimumShouldMatch` for `should` clauses.

- `f.range().field("price").between(min, max)` — range queries.
- `f.matchAll()` — match all documents.

> - `f.simpleQueryString().fields(...).matching(query)` — user-facing query syntax (supports `+`, `-`, `"`).

Reviewer: this only covers a small subset of supported predicates, do we want to have more, or at least link to the docs with the full list ?

Author: Added a link to the full Hibernate Search predicate documentation.

- `.fetchHits(maxResults)` returns `List<Entity>`. `.fetchAllHits()` returns all. `.fetchTotalHitCount()` returns count only.

### Mass Indexing

Re-index all data from the database to Elasticsearch:

```java
@Transactional
public void reindex() throws InterruptedException {
    searchSession.massIndexer(Article.class).startAndWait();
}
```

Call this after bulk data loads or schema changes. Runs in the background by default.

### Custom Analyzers

Define analyzers via `ElasticsearchAnalysisConfigurer`:

```java
@SearchExtension
public class MyAnalysisConfigurer implements ElasticsearchAnalysisConfigurer {
    @Override
    public void configure(ElasticsearchAnalysisConfigurationContext context) {
        context.analyzer("english").custom()
            .tokenizer("standard")
            .tokenFilters("lowercase", "porter_stem");
        context.normalizer("sort").custom()
            .tokenFilters("lowercase", "asciifolding");
    }
}
```

> Reference in entity: `@FullTextField(analyzer = "english")`, `@KeywordField(normalizer = "sort")`.

Reviewer: maybe
```suggestion
Reference on the indexed field: `@FullTextField(analyzer = "english")`, `@KeywordField(normalizer = "sort")`.
```
as these go on the fields, not entities?

Author: Done — changed to "Reference on the indexed field".

### Sorting

```java
@KeywordField(name = "title_sort", sortable = Sortable.YES, normalizer = "sort")
public String title;

// In search:
.sort(f -> f.field("title_sort").asc())
```

`@FullTextField` is NOT sortable — add a separate `@KeywordField` with `sortable = YES` and a normalizer for sort fields.

### Testing

- Dev Services starts Elasticsearch automatically — no manual setup.
- Use `@Transactional` on search methods in tests (SearchSession requires an active session).

> - After creating test data, the index is updated synchronously by default — no wait needed.

Reviewer: don't we need to switch to the `sync` strategy to get the indexes fully ready and return just indexed data ? (`quarkus.hibernate-search-orm.indexing.plan.synchronization.strategy=sync`)

Author: Good catch — added `quarkus.hibernate-search-orm.indexing.plan.synchronization.strategy=sync` to the testing section.
